---
layout:     post
title:      Half Way on Trollolo and GSoC
date:       2018-07-08 21:00:00
summary:    My experience with the first half of the project
categories: GSoC
---

Hi, my name is Matheus de Sousa Bernardo. 

You can find me on @matheussbernardo at github and @matheussber at telegram.

Trollolo is a cli-tool that integrates with trello and helps teams collaborate with Scrum and organize their work. It has a lot of commands. In some ways these commands can be kind confusing.

In the first half of the project I worked in two tasks. The restructure of commands and Finishing the Backup
feature.

Restructure of commands I had to learn about how the ruby module system works fully. First I tought that with  a new namespace to encapsulate the new classes for the subcommands would be great but the Mentors said that it would a lot of complexity and we should Keep It Simple. So what I did was just create the classes and import
as already done in Trollolo. 

The PR is already open waiting to be merged https://github.com/openSUSE/trollolo/pull/195

Finishing the backup was not really planned for the first half in my proposal, anyway I used
the JsonDiff Gem to show the user the difference between a local copy and the online version of the board
and after that I implemented a way to have multiple local version and also diff between the local versions.

The PR is open and waiting to be merged https://github.com/openSUSE/trollolo/pull/196

The first half was really challenging mainly because I struggled to keep a good amount of work, because of college and I'm almost finishing my degree. I hope to have scheduled my time in a better way now and on the second half I hope to overcome the challenge that is the automation of Trollolo, this task is much harder
than the first ones.

That's all folks.

See you next time!